index-set-app/README.md, before:

# cmr-index-set-app

An application that maintains the set of indexes in elasticsearch for multiple concept types.

## Design

An Index Set is a logical set of indexes in Elasticsearch for indexing and searching for concepts. Multiple index sets would be needed to allow for reindexing or migrations.

An Index Set consists of the following:

  * name - A descriptive human readable name.
  * id - A positive integer to uniquely identify an index set. The id is used as a prefix for the indexes in elasticsearch.
  * concept-type-index-config - A map of concept types to Index configs

## Running

To start a web server for the application, run:

    lein run

## Curls

### Create index-set using json string

```
curl -i -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-type: application/json" -XPOST "http://localhost:3005/index-sets" -d "{\"index-set\":{\"name\":\"cmr-base-index-set\",\"create-reason\":\"include message about reasons for creating this index set\",\"granule\":{\"index-names\":[\"G2-PROV1\",\"G4-Prov3\",\"g5_prov5\"],\"mapping\":{\"granule\":{\"_all\":{\"enabled\":false},\"properties\":{\"collection-concept-id\":{\"store\":\"yes\",\"index_options\":\"docs\",\"omit_norms\":\"true\",\"type\":\"string\",\"index\":\"not_analyzed\"},\"concept-id\":{\"store\":\"yes\",\"index_options\":\"docs\",\"omit_norms\":\"true\",\"type\":\"string\",\"index\":\"not_analyzed\"}},\"dynamic\":\"strict\",\"_source\":{\"enabled\":false},\"_id\":{\"path\":\"concept-id\"}}},\"settings\":{\"index\":{\"number_of_replicas\":0,\"refresh_interval\":\"10s\",\"number_of_shards\":1}}},\"collection\":{\"index-names\":[\"C4-collections\",\"c6_Collections\"],\"mapping\":{\"collection\":{\"_all\":{\"enabled\":false},\"properties\":{\"entry-title\":{\"store\":\"yes\",\"index_options\":\"docs\",\"omit_norms\":\"true\",\"type\":\"string\",\"index\":\"not_analyzed\"},\"concept-id\":{\"store\":\"yes\",\"index_options\":\"docs\",\"omit_norms\":\"true\",\"type\":\"string\",\"index\":\"not_analyzed\"}},\"dynamic\":\"strict\",\"_source\":{\"enabled\":false},\"_id\":{\"path\":\"concept-id\"}}},\"settings\":{\"index\":{\"number_of_replicas\":0,\"refresh_interval\":\"20s\",\"number_of_shards\":1}}},\"id\":3}}"
```

### Get index-set by id

    curl -XGET "http://localhost:3005/index-sets/3"

### Get all index-sets

    curl -XGET "http://localhost:3005/index-sets"

### Delete index-set by id

    curl -XDELETE "http://localhost:3005/index-sets/3"

### Mark a collection as rebalancing

There are multiple granule indexes for performance. Larger collections are split out into their own indexes. Smaller collections are grouped in a small_collections index. Marking a collection as rebalancing adds the collection to a list of collections are are being moved out of small collections. It also creates the new granule index.

    curl -XPUT http://localhost:3005/index-sets/3/rebalancing-collections/C5-PROV1


### Reset for dev purposes

    curl -i -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-type: application/json" -XPOST "http://localhost:3005/reset"

### See indices listing

   curl http://localhost:9210/index_sets/_aliases?pretty=1

### Check application health

This will report the current health of the application. It checks all resources and services used by the application and reports their healthes in the response body in JSON format. For resources, the report includes an "ok?" status and a "problem" field if the resource is not OK. For services, the report includes an overall "ok?" status for the service and health reports for each of its dependencies. It returns HTTP status code 200 when the application is healthy, which means all its interfacing resources and services are healthy; or HTTP status code 503 when one of the resources or services is not healthy. It also takes pretty parameter for pretty printing the response.

    curl -i -XGET "http://localhost:3005/health?pretty=true"

Example healthy response body:

```
{
  "elastic_search" : {
    "ok?" : true
  },
  "echo" : {
    "ok?" : true
  }
}
```

Example un-healthy response body:

```
{
  "elastic_search" : {
    "ok?" : false,
    "problem" : {
      "status" : "Inaccessible",
      "problem" : "Unable to get elasticsearch cluster health, caught exception: Connection refused"
    }
  },
  "echo" : {
    "ok?" : true
  }
}
```

## License

Copyright © 2014 NASA

## Sample outputs

- Get all index-sets response
[{:id 3,
  :name "cmr-base-index-set",
  :concepts
  {:collection
   {:c6_Collections "3_c6_collections",
    :C4-collections "3_c4_collections"},
   :granule
   {:g5_prov5 "3_g5_prov5",
    :G4-Prov3 "3_g4_prov3",
    :G2-PROV1 "3_g2_prov1"}}}
 {:id 55,
  :name "cmr-base-index-set",
  :concepts
  {:collection
   {:c6_Collections "55_c6_collections",
    :C4-collections "55_c4_collections"},
   :granule
   {:g5_prov5 "55_g5_prov5",
    :G4-Prov3 "55_g4_prov3",
    :G2-PROV1 "55_g2_prov1"}}}]

- Get an index-set by id response
    {:index-set
 {:concepts
  {:collection
   {:c6_Collections "3_c6_collections",
    :C4-collections "3_c4_collections"},
   :granule
   {:g5_prov5 "3_g5_prov5",
    :G4-Prov3 "3_g4_prov3",
    :G2-PROV1 "3_g2_prov1"}},
  :name "cmr-base-index-set",
  :create-reason
  "include message about reasons for creating this index set",
  :granule
  {:index-names ["G2-PROV1" "G4-Prov3" "g5_prov5"],
   :mapping
   {:granule
    {:_all {:enabled false},
     :properties
     {:collection-concept-id
      {:store "yes",
       :index_options "docs",
       :omit_norms "true",
       :type "string",
       :index "not_analyzed"},
      :concept-id
      {:store "yes",
       :index_options "docs",
       :omit_norms "true",
       :type "string",
       :index "not_analyzed"}},
     :dynamic "strict",
     :_source {:enabled false},
     :_id {:path "concept-id"}}},
   :settings
   {:index
    {:number_of_replicas 0,
     :refresh_interval "10s",
     :number_of_shards 1}}},
  :collection
  {:index-names ["C4-collections" "c6_Collections"],
   :mapping
   {:collection
    {:_all {:enabled false},
     :properties
     {:entry-title
      {:store "yes",
       :index_options "docs",
       :omit_norms "true",
       :type "string",
       :index "not_analyzed"},
      :concept-id
      {:store "yes",
       :index_options "docs",
       :omit_norms "true",
       :type "string",
       :index "not_analyzed"}},
     :dynamic "strict",
     :_source {:enabled false},
     :_id {:path "concept-id"}}},
   :settings
   {:index
    {:number_of_replicas 0,
     :refresh_interval "20s",
     :number_of_shards 1}}},
  :id 3}}

Commit message:

CMR-2562: Added route to finalize a rebalancing collection.

index-set-app/README.md, after:

# cmr-index-set-app

An application that maintains the set of indexes in elasticsearch for multiple concept types.

## Design

An Index Set is a logical set of indexes in Elasticsearch for indexing and searching for concepts. Multiple index sets would be needed to allow for reindexing or migrations.

An Index Set consists of the following:

  * name - A descriptive human readable name.
  * id - A positive integer to uniquely identify an index set. The id is used as a prefix for the indexes in elasticsearch.
  * concept-type-index-config - A map of concept types to Index configs

## Running

To start a web server for the application, run:

    lein run

## Curls

### Create index-set using json string

```
curl -i -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-type: application/json" -XPOST "http://localhost:3005/index-sets" -d "{\"index-set\":{\"name\":\"cmr-base-index-set\",\"create-reason\":\"include message about reasons for creating this index set\",\"granule\":{\"index-names\":[\"G2-PROV1\",\"G4-Prov3\",\"g5_prov5\"],\"mapping\":{\"granule\":{\"_all\":{\"enabled\":false},\"properties\":{\"collection-concept-id\":{\"store\":\"yes\",\"index_options\":\"docs\",\"omit_norms\":\"true\",\"type\":\"string\",\"index\":\"not_analyzed\"},\"concept-id\":{\"store\":\"yes\",\"index_options\":\"docs\",\"omit_norms\":\"true\",\"type\":\"string\",\"index\":\"not_analyzed\"}},\"dynamic\":\"strict\",\"_source\":{\"enabled\":false},\"_id\":{\"path\":\"concept-id\"}}},\"settings\":{\"index\":{\"number_of_replicas\":0,\"refresh_interval\":\"10s\",\"number_of_shards\":1}}},\"collection\":{\"index-names\":[\"C4-collections\",\"c6_Collections\"],\"mapping\":{\"collection\":{\"_all\":{\"enabled\":false},\"properties\":{\"entry-title\":{\"store\":\"yes\",\"index_options\":\"docs\",\"omit_norms\":\"true\",\"type\":\"string\",\"index\":\"not_analyzed\"},\"concept-id\":{\"store\":\"yes\",\"index_options\":\"docs\",\"omit_norms\":\"true\",\"type\":\"string\",\"index\":\"not_analyzed\"}},\"dynamic\":\"strict\",\"_source\":{\"enabled\":false},\"_id\":{\"path\":\"concept-id\"}}},\"settings\":{\"index\":{\"number_of_replicas\":0,\"refresh_interval\":\"20s\",\"number_of_shards\":1}}},\"id\":3}}"
```

### Get index-set by id

    curl -XGET "http://localhost:3005/index-sets/3"

### Get all index-sets

    curl -XGET "http://localhost:3005/index-sets"

### Delete index-set by id

    curl -XDELETE "http://localhost:3005/index-sets/3"

### Mark a collection as rebalancing

There are multiple granule indexes for performance. Larger collections are split out into their own indexes. Smaller collections are grouped in a small_collections index. Marking a collection as rebalancing adds the collection to a list of collections are are being moved out of small collections. It also creates the new granule index.

    curl -XPOST http://localhost:3005/index-sets/3/rebalancing-collections/C5-PROV1/start

### Finalize a rebalancing collection

Finalizing a rebalancing collection removes the collection from the list of collections are are being moved out of small collections.

    curl -XPOST http://localhost:3005/index-sets/3/rebalancing-collections/C5-PROV1/finalize


### Reset for dev purposes

    curl -i -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-type: application/json" -XPOST "http://localhost:3005/reset"

### See indices listing

   curl http://localhost:9210/index_sets/_aliases?pretty=1

### Check application health

This will report the current health of the application. It checks all resources and services used by the application and reports their healthes in the response body in JSON format. For resources, the report includes an "ok?" status and a "problem" field if the resource is not OK. For services, the report includes an overall "ok?" status for the service and health reports for each of its dependencies. It returns HTTP status code 200 when the application is healthy, which means all its interfacing resources and services are healthy; or HTTP status code 503 when one of the resources or services is not healthy. It also takes pretty parameter for pretty printing the response.

    curl -i -XGET "http://localhost:3005/health?pretty=true"

Example healthy response body:

```
{
  "elastic_search" : {
    "ok?" : true
  },
  "echo" : {
    "ok?" : true
  }
}
```

Example un-healthy response body:

```
{
  "elastic_search" : {
    "ok?" : false,
    "problem" : {
      "status" : "Inaccessible",
      "problem" : "Unable to get elasticsearch cluster health, caught exception: Connection refused"
    }
  },
  "echo" : {
    "ok?" : true
  }
}
```

## License

Copyright © 2014 NASA

## Sample outputs

- Get all index-sets response
[{:id 3,
  :name "cmr-base-index-set",
  :concepts
  {:collection
   {:c6_Collections "3_c6_collections",
    :C4-collections "3_c4_collections"},
   :granule
   {:g5_prov5 "3_g5_prov5",
    :G4-Prov3 "3_g4_prov3",
    :G2-PROV1 "3_g2_prov1"}}}
 {:id 55,
  :name "cmr-base-index-set",
  :concepts
  {:collection
   {:c6_Collections "55_c6_collections",
    :C4-collections "55_c4_collections"},
   :granule
   {:g5_prov5 "55_g5_prov5",
    :G4-Prov3 "55_g4_prov3",
    :G2-PROV1 "55_g2_prov1"}}}]

- Get an index-set by id response
    {:index-set
 {:concepts
  {:collection
   {:c6_Collections "3_c6_collections",
    :C4-collections "3_c4_collections"},
   :granule
   {:g5_prov5 "3_g5_prov5",
    :G4-Prov3 "3_g4_prov3",
    :G2-PROV1 "3_g2_prov1"}},
  :name "cmr-base-index-set",
  :create-reason
  "include message about reasons for creating this index set",
  :granule
  {:index-names ["G2-PROV1" "G4-Prov3" "g5_prov5"],
   :mapping
   {:granule
    {:_all {:enabled false},
     :properties
     {:collection-concept-id
      {:store "yes",
       :index_options "docs",
       :omit_norms "true",
       :type "string",
       :index "not_analyzed"},
      :concept-id
      {:store "yes",
       :index_options "docs",
       :omit_norms "true",
       :type "string",
       :index "not_analyzed"}},
     :dynamic "strict",
     :_source {:enabled false},
     :_id {:path "concept-id"}}},
   :settings
   {:index
    {:number_of_replicas 0,
     :refresh_interval "10s",
     :number_of_shards 1}}},
  :collection
  {:index-names ["C4-collections" "c6_Collections"],
   :mapping
   {:collection
    {:_all {:enabled false},
     :properties
     {:entry-title
      {:store "yes",
       :index_options "docs",
       :omit_norms "true",
       :type "string",
       :index "not_analyzed"},
      :concept-id
      {:store "yes",
       :index_options "docs",
       :omit_norms "true",
       :type "string",
       :index "not_analyzed"}},
     :dynamic "strict",
     :_source {:enabled false},
     :_id {:path "concept-id"}}},
   :settings
   {:index
    {:number_of_replicas 0,
     :refresh_interval "20s",
     :number_of_shards 1}}},
  :id 3}}
